---
layout: docs
title: Glossary
permalink: /docs/glossary/
---

#### Ambiregnal

Organisms which may be subject to more than one code of nomenclature. Examples
include (but are not limited to) the cyanobacteria (left) which, while bacteria
and therefore logically subject to the International Code of Nomenclature of
Bacteria, are studied by the same community as studies eukaryotic algae and who
apply the Code of Botanical Nomenclature; to organisms that have been treated
as protozoa (and to which ICZN has been applied) and as algae (to which the
ICBN has been applied -- such as dinoflagellates, euglenids, chrysophytes; or
organisms whose perceived affinities have greatly changed as a result of new
knowledge (a good example being the microsporidia, once regarded as type of
protozoon and therefore subject to ICZN, but which are a much modified type of
fungus and to which ISBN applies. Such cross-code taxa present an array of
special problems, in some cases having more than one legitimate name.

#### Atlas of Living Australia (ALA)

A large project in Australia that will form the infrastructure to improve
exchange, collaboration and other forms of interoperability among Australian
government departments and organizations with interests in biodiversity.

#### Appearance

The occurrence of a name in a document.

#### Author/Authority

The person or team who introduced a name (a code-compliant scientific name)
into the literature. The author's name follows the scientific name, with or
without a date. When a species is moved from one genus to another, the author
of the original species name is usually placed in parentheses, and this is then
followed by the names of the authors of the new combination.

#### Available name

A scientific name that complies with the provisions of the code; the term is
used in the context of the zoological code, botanists use **validly published**
for this.

#### Basionym

Refers to the relationship between the first species binomen to include a
particular species epithet, and a subsequent combination; an example might be
that *Gerardia purpurea Linnaeus* is the basionym of *Agalinis purpurea (L.)
Pennell*. **Protonym** term refers to the first appearance of a name.

#### Binomial nomenclature

Refers to the use of two parts, a genus name and a species epithet, for a
species.

#### Biocode

A code that was intended to apply to all types of organisms, and so overcoming
some of the problems that arise for the existence of independent codes for
animals, plants, bacteria, etc. The idea never gained sufficient traction and
is now probably replaceable with appropriate informatics tools that provide
taxon-specific interface into a common nomenclatural environment, with each
taxonomic domain having its own rules that need to be complied with. The
biocode was published as: *Greuter W; Hawksworth DL; McNeill J; Mayo MA;
Minelli A; Sneath PHA; Tindall BJ; Trehane P; Tubbs P (eds) (1998) Draft
BioCode (1997): the prospective international rules for the scientific names of
organisms. Taxon 47: 127-150.*

#### Biodiversity Information Standards (TDWG)

An [international organization][tdwg] formerly known as *Taxonomic Databases
Working Group*. It stands behind of many adopted formats and standards for
biodiversity information transfer. TDWG was formed to establish international
collaboration to promote the wider and more effective dissemination of
information about the World's heritage of biological organisms for the benefit
of the world at large.

#### Candidatus/Candidate

A term in nomenclature, used mostly by bacteriologists and virologists, to
refer to taxa that have not yet met all of the requirements of the prevailing
code of nomenclature. Typically the term is written out: *Candidatus
Pelagibacter ubique*.

#### Canonical name

A version of a scientific name that contains complete versions of the latin
words, but lacks insertions of subtaxa, annotations, or authority information.
For example name string *Grevillea glauca* Banks & Sol. ex Knight has canonical
name *Grevillea glauca*.

#### Catalogue of Life

A [project][col] which aims to collate all species into a curated single
checklist in the context of a managerial taxanomical hierarchy


#### Chresonym

A reference to the use of a name. The sperm whale Physeter catodon was first
formally described by Linnaeus in the 1758 edition of Systema Naturae, so the
correct name with authority information is *Physeter catodon* Linnaeus, 1758
(or variants thereof). *Physeter catodon*, Harmer, 1928 on the other hand
refers to the use of the name by Harmer. Chresonyms are very similar in
appearance to the scientific name plus authority, but in many cases are
distinguished by the presence of an additional element of punctuation. In some
taxonomic areas, it is routine to include chresonyms among the synonymy lists
-- an activity that leads to much confusion.

#### Classification

The arrangement of taxa into a hierarchy that uses scientific names and usually
includes ranks

#### Code

Reference to a **code** typically means one of the codes of nomenclature that
governs the legitimacy of names. There are many different codes, but the
primary ones are the codes for animals (ICZN), for plants and fungi (ICN), for
prokaryotes (ICNB).


####  Code of Phytosociologial Nomenclature

One of the less well known codes of nomenclature which issues the rules of
**syntaxa** -- vegetaton types composed of many species. This code is out of
scope of Global Names

####  Colloquial name or Vernacular name

A common or vernacular name for a taxon, a name that is not presented as a
scientific name. Such names are associated with a language, and often cannot
be accuratelly mapped to a scientific name. However there are well-governed
vernacular names, which correspond exactly to scientific names.

####  Committee on Phylogenetic Nomenclature (CPN)

A committee of the International Society for Phylogenetic Nomenclature from
which the Phylocode is derived.

####  Diagnosis

A succinct statement of the attributes of a taxon when first published, some
codes require the diagnosis to be in Latin.

####  Disambiguation

The act of providing clarity of meaning to two or more terms that previously
lacked clarity of meaning. In the case of names management, the primary use of
disambiguation is to discriminate among the meanings of homonyns, names of
different organisms but that are spelled identically.

####  DOI

DOIs are persistent identifiers used, for example, by publishers for articles.
An explanation of the benefits was  given on the [Taxacom ListServe by Rod Page
and Donat Agosti][doi-defence].

####  Darwin Core Archive (DwCA)

[Darwin Core Archive][dwca], a draft standard that allows the transfer of
biodiversity information from one machine to another. It takes the form of a
set of text files with a simple descriptor to provide information as to how the
file is organized. Data files are arranged in a star-like manner, with one core
data file surrounded by any number of "extensions". Each extension record (or
"extension file row") points to a record in the core file; in this way a DWCA
package might contain a list of species as one file, to which is attached
another file with occurrence information, or further files dealing with other
types of information. This is GBIF's preferred data exchange standard and is
integrated with their IPT environment.

####  The European Distributed Institute of Taxonomy (EDIT)

[EDIT][edit] is a collective answer of 29 leading European, North American and
Russian institutions to a call of the European Commission, issued in 2004, for
a network in "Taxonomy for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research". The EDIT
consortium agreement has started on the 1rst of March 2006 and lasted until
2011.

####  Entity

A group of organisms, such as a taxon, but entity can also be used for groups
that may lack a formal name or rank

####  Encyclopedia Of Life (EOL)

A [project][eol] to create a web page for every known species on Earth.

####  Epithet

The second part of the latin binomial for species - the "robur" of *Banskia
robur*, it is mostly used in the context of botanical names.

####  Fossils

Organisms, parts of organisms, or the works of organisms that are no longer
living and subject to gravity are associated with sediments. They include
information about species that are no longer with us. The best estimate of the
total number of described fossil species is about 250,000

####  TaxaMatch

A fuzzy matching algorithm originally developed by Tony Rees to find correct
spelling for mispelled name strings

####  Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF)

An [international organization][gbif] supported via governments worldwide and
co-ordinated through the United Nations to be a leading clearing house of
biodiversity information.

####  Global Names Index (GNI)

An index of name strings in the broadest sense (including code-compliant
scientific names, vernacular names, surrogates, and erroneous forms of names),
with links to environments that have the names and to the associated data or
metadata associated with names. GNI is a core element of the GNA. This is a
rather raw list of names which, to become useful, have to be reconciled so that
alternative names for the same entity are linked together, disambiguated so
that identically spelled names for different entities can be discriminated,
classified for navigation and to serve the needs of taxonomists, and flagged to
indicate the status of the name.

####  Global Names Interface for Taxonomic Editing (GNITE)

an interface that will allow individual taxonomists to improve the underlying
names-based infrastructure. Through this interface (under development)
taxonomists will be able to review the names that are known to GNA and add
missing ones, they will be able to edit, correct and annotate names, they will
be able to merge, split and edit reconciliation groups, they will be able to
edit and improve disambiguation of homonyms and chresonyms, and they will be
able to merge classifications, edit classifications nor create new
classifications.

####  Global Names Usage Bank (GNUB)

An environment to record the occurrence of names in documents, databases, notes
or other records. A large and central component of GNA. The usages will include
all nomenclatural acts, making GNUB critical to nomenclators and emerging
registration environments such as Zoobank. GNUB will index usages that help to
clarify the meaning of each name and so contains resources that will be
developed into taxonomic tools and services.

####  Global Names Architecture (GNA)

An open-ended names-based cyberinfrastructure that will provides data and
services to meet the needs of taxonomists, nomenclaturalists, and biodiversity
informaticians. This is envisioned as a semantic environment comprised of
modules interconnected by standards-compliant web services. This site provides
information about GNA and its development

####  Heterotypic

With different types (where types are reference material)

####  Heterotypic synonym also Taxonomic synonym,  Subjective synonym

Used for two code-compliant scientific names that are thought to refer to the
same species. To be heterotypic (as opposed to homotypic) the names will have
been created independently and used different type material. Homotypic synonyms
are created when one worker is not aware of the work of others, when stages of
a life cycle or genders are described as different species, or when a "lumper"
feels that a "splitter" has divided a species too finely.

####  Holotype

A single specimen (part or work of a specimen) that is used to anchor a
taxonomic concept and its associated name. A holotype will usually be a dead
organism that is preserved in a museum or herbarium. The holotype may be the
only type material that is available or may be part of an array of type
material. The role of the type is to unambiguously establish the intended
meaning of a scientific name.

####  Homonym

A name string spelled referring to more than one group of organisms different
organisms. For example [*Aotus*][aotus] describes a group of monkeys and a
group of peas. Homonyms can occur within codes or between codes (when some
people refer to them as hemihomonyms. The meanings of homonyms needs to be
disambiguated if we are to understand what the name refers to. The authority
information or context can often be sufficient. However a wide spread of
chresonyms complicates the situation.


####  Homotypic synonyms or Objective synonyms

Refers to different names for the same species, and have the same basionym. An
example is: *Leucocryptos remigera* Vørs, 1992 and *Kathablepharis remigera*
(Vørs, 1992) Clay & Krugens, 1999, or with an alternative spelling,
*Katablepharis remigera*. Also referred to as an objective synonym or a
nomenclatural synonym

####  Index Bergeyana

A catalogue of bacterial names published in 1966; mostly rendered obsolete with
subsequent revisions of the relevant code of nomenclature.

####  Index Fungorum (IF)

The global fungal nomenclator coordinated and supported by the Index Fungorum
Partnership, which aims to include all names proposed for fungi (including
yeasts, lichens, chromistan fungi, protozoan fungi and fossil forms) since 1753
at species level and below

####  International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (ICN)

Previously known as International Code of Botanical Nomenclature (ICBN), a
nomenclatural code that governs the formulation of the names of plants, algae
and fungi

####  International Code of Nomenclature of Prokaryotes (ICNP)

Previously known as International Code of Nomenclature of Bacteria (ICNB), a
nomenclatural code to govern formulation of names of procariots

####  International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV)

It produces the International Code of Virus Classification and Nomenclature of
ICTV

####  International Code of Virus Classification and Nomenclature of ICTV

The code governing formulation of names of viruses. This code is largely out of
scope of Global Names Architecture because its nomenclature is not related to
other codes, for example official language of the code is English instead of
Lati. This code is largely out of scope of Global Names Architecture because
its nomenclature is not related to other codes, for example official language
of the code is English instead of Latin.

####  International Code of Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN)

The code governing formulation of zoological names

####  International Commission on the Nomenclature of Cultivated Plants (ICNCP)

International Code of (and Commission for the) Nomenclature of Cultivagted Plants

####  International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature

the editorial and regulatory body for zoological nomenclature, responsible for
preparing the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature.

####  International Committee for the Taxonomy of Fungi

A committee appointed to consider issues related to the taxonomy fungi, not
concerned with formal proposals for the conservation and rejection of names.

####  International Committee on Bionomenclature

A committee originally established in 1994, and a scientific member of IUBS
from 2009, comprising representatives of the different Codes and providing a
forum for discussion and action on matters of common concern.

####  International Committee on Systematics of Prokaryotes

A body appointed by the IUMS Division of Bacteriology at its international
congresses. The ICSP, formerly the International Committee on Systematic
Bacteriology (ICSB), is the body that oversees the nomenclature of prokaryotes,
determines the rules by which prokaryotes are named and whose Judicial
Commission issues Opinions concerning taxonomic matters, revisions to the
Bacteriological Code, etc.

####  International Plant Names Index (IPNI)

A database of the names and associated bibliographic information of all seed
plants, ferns, and fern allies (http://www.ipni.org) produced through
collaboration of the Australian National Herbarium, Harvard University
Herbaria, and the Royal Botanic Gardens Kew

####  International Trust for Zoological Nomenclature

A not for profit company founded in 1947 which acts on behalf of the
International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature to raise and administer
funds.

####  Interim register of Marine and Non Marine genera (IRMNG)

he most complete and organized list of genera of organisms - with (at the time
of writing) 446,000 of the estimated 470,000 generic names; with annotations as
to whether the taxa the names refer to are marine or non-marine, and whether
they are still living or extinct.

####  Integrated Taxonomic Information System (ITIS)

An United States Government [organization][itis] with a mission to create a
scientifically credible database of taxonomic information, placing primary
focus on taxa of interest to North America, with world treatments included, as
available.

####  Junior

Used in relation to homonyms and synonyms, and identifies those names that,
according to the appropriate code of nomenclature, should not prevail. The
senior homonym / synonym is almost always the one that was formed first (i.e.
the principle of priority is served). Junior is most widely used in the content
of zoological nomenclature.

####  Junior Synonym

Synonyms are two or more code-compliant names that are applied to the same
taxon; the junior synonyms are those that should not prevail. The senior
synonym is almost always the one that was formed first (i.e. the principle of
priority is served). The term is most widely used in the content of zoological
nomenclature.

####  Legitimate name

A botanical term that refers to a scientific name that was formulated in
agreement with the rules of the ICN.

####  Lexical variant

Alternative spellings and formulations of a name string. For example
*Cyclotrachelus sodalis* (LeConte) and *Cyclotrachelus (Evarthrus) sodalis* (Le
Conte 1848) are Lexical varians. In a broader sense lexical variants can
include misspellings - such as *Cyclotrachelis sodalis* (Le Conte)

####  Name

In the context of GNA, a name is a string of one or more characters  with or
without spaces that is used as a label for a taxonomic concept or other entity.
Names may be scientific, vernacular, or surrogates; scientific names may be
code-compliant or not. The precise sequence of all characters that make up a
name is referred to as the "name-string". Discrete parts of a name-string are
name objects (such as the Genus name).

####  Name object

A component of a canonical name string. Homo sapiens has two name objects:
"Homo" and "sapiens", a trinomial has 3. Annotations, punctuation, and
authority information are not 'name objects'

####  Name: scientific

A latinized name that is used to refer to a taxon. Some scientific names are
regulated by the codes of nomenclature and are referred to as code-compliant,
others (such as names of taxa above the rank of family) are not code-compliant.
Some scientific names are comprised of a single latinized word, but in the case
of species, the scientific name is  made up of two words (Rattus norvegicus),
Trinomials are formed when a subgenus or a subspecies is added to the species
name. Codes of nomenclature differ in how they define the 'name"and the
'scientific name' of species. The english glossary in the International Code of
Zoological Nomenclature refers to the species binomen as being comprised of two
names; whereas the botanical convention is that the binomen is a name, and the
species component of it is referred to as an epithet.

####  Name: surrogate

A string of alphanumeric characters that refers to a taxon, but is neither a
scientific name nor a vernacular name. Often a form of coding that is used to
refer to a sample, a specimen, or a concept before it becomes well established.
SAR11 was the name given to a bacterial clade and much was published on it,
until later it was given a scientific name Pelagibacter ubique but as this was
unfortunately not code-compliant it is currently referred to as Candidatus
Pelagibacter ubique

####  Namestring

The precise sequence of all characters that are used as a name . There may be
variations in the way that a name is expressed - *Feronia sodalis* and *Feronia
sodalis* LeConte 1848 are two of many possible name strings for the same
scientific name.

####  Nom. nov.

A new name. A term used when for some reason an existing name can no longer be
used -- for example it is discovered to be a junior homonym of a name that was
introduced earlier for a different species.

####  Nomenclator

A compiler of names and opinions that provide information on the
code-compliancy of the names. A definitive source of "correct" names. The
"Index Fungorum" is the nomenclator for Fungi.

####  Nomenclatural act

A statement in a publication that affects the nomenclatural status of a
scientific name or its typification. These include the creation of the name (as
a protonym) small subset of the TNUs represent Code-governed Acts (and, hence,
the foundational units for nomenclators such as ZooBank and other zoological
nomenclators, Index Fungorum, IPNI, etc.).

####  Nomenclature

That component of taxonomy that relates the legitimacy, formation, and
stability of a latin name. The regulations are included in the various codes of
nomenclature (see Codes of Nomenclature), and define what constitutes
publication, the use of type material, the construction of names, and who
trumps who when there is more than one code-compliant name for a taxon. The
codes typically deal with taxa up to the rank of Family.

####  Nomina

An open-ended and occasional series of workshops used to develop ideas and
components of the Global Names Architecture. Also means "names".

####  Name parsing

A process of breaking a name into its component parts.

####  The Pan European Species Directories Infrastructure (PESI)

ESI provides standardised and authoritative taxonomic information by
integrating and securing Europe's taxonomically authoritative species name
registers and nomenclators (name databases) and associated exper(tise) networks
that underpin the management of biodiversity in Europe.

####  Phylocode

A Code of biological nomenclature that uses phylogenetic principles to define
clades (components of a phylogenetic tree and/or the taxa included within that
component of the phylogenetic tree). The International Committee on
Phylogenetic Nomenclature can be held responsible for this

####  Phylogenetic tree

Representation of evolutionary relationships (phylogeny) as a branching diagram
or tree

####  Phylogeny

The evolutionary relationships among taxa; also misleadingly but widely used
for dendrograms that are produced from analyses of data and are visualization
tools that offer an interpretation of what the phylogeny was. The phylogeny
refers to the true ancestory descendent relationships, a phylogeny refers to
a hypothesis of phylogenetic relationships.

####  Polynomial

A name of a taxon that includes three or more separate words.A name of a taxon
that includes three or more separate words.

####  Priority

Refers to a principle that when names are in competition, normally the oldest
(earliest established) name is the one that should be used.

####  pro parte or p.p.

in part; refers to a part of a concept of one author, usually applied in
situations where the author in question is deemed to have included more than
one species in their concept, and it is necessary to point out that only a part
of the description / scope is applicable.

####  Protologue

A botanical terms that refers to everything associated with a name when it was
first published in compliance with the prevailing code -- such as the
description, diagnosis, phylogenetic definition, registration number,
designation of type, illustrations, references, synonymy, geographical data,
specimen citations, and comments.

####  Publication

In the broad sense, any readable document or record, in a narrow sense refers
to places in which names are "published" (see published). Electronic
publication refers to publication in non-paper forms, such as on a web-site.

####  Published

A term that in the context of a nomenclatural code defines the conditions that
need to be fulfilled when a name is first presented in order for that name to
be recognised as a scientific name.

####  Ranks

The levels within a hierarchical classification of organisms. There are seven
principal categories: kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus, and
species. However, there are many intermediary ranks (such as subclasses,
superfamilies, tribes, subspecies, varieties, etc. Over 90 ranks have been
used.

####  Reconciliation

A solution to the "many-names-for-one-taxon" problem, as an alternative to
seeking the use of a single preferred name, reconciliation seeks to identify
all names that have been used together, group them together (in a
reconciliation group) and flag or annotate those names that are preferred.

####  Reconciliation group

Reconciliation groups are used to address the "many-names-for-one-species"; a
reconciliation group (RG) seeks to link together all names that have been used
for a taxon. A query or other action initiates with one name can be extended to
give a response involving some or all names. Names within groups can be
annotated to show which are scientific, which are vernacular or surrogate
names, to indicate nomenclatural status, etc. reconciliation involves
grouping variant spellings (lexical variants) of all names, homotypic and
heterotypic synonyms of scientific names, vernacular names, and surrogate
names.

####  Registration

Used in the context of scientific names, the act of recording a name with a
registration body. It is likely that future taxonomy will require registration
of new names through one or more (co-ordinated) registration sites -- such as
Zoobank.

####  Resolution

Mapping a name string to a reconciliation group, or a name string from a
particular data base

####  ScratchPad

A Drupal-based content management system for biodiversity that allows
taxonomists to create web sites for biodiversity without incurring the cost of
developing the software. Supported through the European EDIT / Vibrant
programs.

####  sec

According to: as in *Aus bus sec* Smith 1955 means Aus bus as referred to or as
interpreted by Smith in her 1955 article.  Sensu is similar, meaning 'in the
sense of '. Derived from 'secundum'.

####  Senior homonym

Of two homonyms within the context of a code of nomenclature, the one that
continue to be used -- typically the first to be established

####  Senior synonym

Of two synonyms, the one that is to be used for the organism, typically the one
that was created first

####  Sensu

In the sense of; usually used to point to one person's interpretation of a
meaning.

####  Sensu lato

In a broad sense, often used in the context of lumping and splitting to refer
to the more extensive concepts of a given taxon.

####  Sensu stricto

In a strict sense. often used in the context of lumping and splitting to refer
to the most restrictive concepts of a given taxon.

####  Species epithet

The second part of the binomial of a species name -- the 'sapiens' of 'Homo
sapiens'. In a strict sense is used in botany, not in zoology

####  Splitter

Refers to a taxonomist who favors taxa that are very narrowly defined -- that
is they tend to split taxa up. Splitters create infrasubspecific taxa.
Splitters stand in contrast to lumpers

####  Standards

Information standards are agreed conventions by which information can be
organised. Standards are important to machine-to-machine dialog, allowing one
machine to release information in a way that other machines can understand.
Semanticization is dependent on standards. The primary body developing
standards for biology is TDWG, but many other projects have developed in-house
standards.

####  Synonym

One of two or more code-compliant scientific names that are thought to refer to
the same species. There are objective (homotypic) and subjective (heterotypic)
synonyms, and junior and senior synonyms.

####  Systematics

That component of the discipline of taxonomy that relates to the arrangement of
taxa , normally within hierarchies or classifications

####  Tautonym

A species name in which the same word is used for both the genus and species
name: *Bison bison*. Permitted for animals but not for plants.

####  Taxon

A formally named group of organisms, with a name and a rank. Ranges from those
infrasubspecific taxa, through the usual players of species, genus, family,
class, and order and things in between, up to Kingdom and even beyond.

####  Taxon Name Usage (TNU)

Taxon (or taxonomic) name usage (TNU) is an occurrence of a taxon name in any
form, usually they are made in publications, but the concept includes usages
databases, personal correspondence, field notebooks, etc. Usages may include
nomenclatural acts that relate to the application of the appropriate code, or
taxonomic acts that bear on the identity of the taxon labeled with the name.

####  Taxonomic intelligence

The explicit inclusion of taxonomic thinking within the design of data bases,
algorithms, and services. Taxonomic thinking includes an understanding of
nomenclatural regulations, the sources of the many-names-for-one-species and
the one-name-for-many-specie problems, the reasons for laternative
classifications and the nature of taxonomic concepts.

####  Trinomial name

A latin name with three parts, such as happens when a subgenus is included
within a name, or when a subspecies is included. An example is Bison (Bison)
bison (genus (subgenus) species, or Bison bison bison (Genus, species
subspecies)

####  Type material

The specimens and other elements used by an author in the original description
of a new species or subspecific taxon

####  Type specimen

A single specimen which acts as the defining reference point for the
application of a name of a species or an infraspecific taxon. Type specimens
are usually retained within Museums and herbaria.

####  Uninomial

A scientific name comprised of a single name string, such as a genus name (e.g.
*Zyzzyzus* Stechow, 1921).

####  Usage

The association of appearances of a name within a document.  If Smith (1955)
published an article on Aus bus, and mentioned the name "Aus bus" 14 times
within the article (i.e. there are 14 appearances of the binomial), then there
would be three usages - "Aus in Smith 1955", "bus in Smith 1955", and
(arguably) "Aus bus in Smith 1955".  The combination of the name and the
reference is a chresonym.  In the event that the usages bears on the identity
of the taxon, these usages may also be referred to as "Aus sec Smith 1955" or
"Aus bus sensu Smith 1955".

####  Valid name

A term used by zoologists and virologists to refer to a code-compliant name of
an animal.

####  Zoobank

Online register for names of animal, part of the activities of the
International Commission of Zoological nomenclature.

[tdwg]: http://tdwg.org
[col]: http://catalogueoflife.org
[doi-defence]: http://mailman.nhm.ku.edu/pipermail/taxacom/2010-February/068205.html
[dwca]: https://github.com/tdwg/dwc/blob/dwc_cleanup/guides/text/index.md
[edit]: http://www.e-taxonomy.eu/
[eol]: http://eol.org
[taxamatch]: https://code.google.com/p/taxon-name-processing/wiki/TaxamatchInfo
[gbif]: http://gbif.org
[aotus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aotus
[itis]: http://itis.gov
