---
layout: news_item
title: Scala-based gnparser v.0.1.0
date: 2015-10-26 09:25:43
author: dimus
product: GNParser
version: 0.1.0
categories: gnparser release
published: false
comments: true
---

We are happy to announce a public release of [Global Names Parser][gnparser] or
`gnparser` -- the first project that marks transition of Global Names
reconciliation and resolution services from "prototype" to "production". The
`gnparser` project is developed by @alexander-myltsev and @dimus in Scala
language.

Scientific names might be expressed by quite different name strings. Sometimes
the difference is just one comma, sometimes authors are included or excluded,
sometimes ranks are omitted. With all this variability "in the wild" we need to
figure out how to group all these different spelling variants.  Name parsing is
an unexpectedly complex and absolutely necessary step for connecting biological
information via scientific names.

Global Names released [Biodiversity Gem][biodiversity-gem] -- a scientific name
parser written in Ruby for these purposes. The library in its 3 variants
enjoyed a significant success -- about [150 000 downloads][downloads] and a
notion as the [most popular bio-library][bioruby] for Ruby language. It allowed
to parse about 2-3 million names an hour, and had been the basis of name
reconciliation for many projects from the moment of its publication.

GNParser is a direct descendant of the biodiversity gem. It serves the same
purpose and input/output format of both projects are similar. It also marks
eventual discontinuation of 'biodiversity gem project' and migration of all
Global Names code to the new `gnparser` library.

Why did we go through the pain of making a completely new parser from scratch?
The short answer is scalability and portability. We want to be able to remove
parsing step from being a bottleneck for any number of names thrown at
resolution services. For example finding all names in [Biodiversity Heritage
Library][bhl] took us 40 days 3 years ago. If we want to improve algorithms of
finding names for BHL -- we cannot wait 40 days for every small change to
propagate through the biodiversity literature.  We want to be able to do it
within one day, or even better within one hour and improve whole BHL index
every time our algorithms are improved significantly.

We want the transferring names to resolution services and then transferring
answers back to be the bottleneck for people who improve their names
collections. For such speeds we need very fast parsing. Scala allows us to
dramatically improve speed and scalability of parsing.

Having a parser running in Java Virtual Machine environment allows us to give
biodiversity community a much more portable parsing tool. [Out of the
box][examples] parser library will work with Scala, Java, R, Jython and JRuby
directly. We hope that it will speedup and simplify many biodiversity projects.

This is the very first public release of the library. Please download it, run
it, test it and give us your feedback, so we can improve it further. Happy
parsing :smile:

[gnparser]: https://github.com/GlobalNamesArchitecture/gnparser
[biodiversity-gem]: https://github.com/GlobalNamesArchitecture/biodiversity
[downloads]: https://rubygems.org/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=biodiversity
[bhl]: http://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/
[bioruby]: http://biogems.info/
[examples]: https://github.com/GlobalNamesArchitecture/gnparser/tree/master/examples
