---
layout: news_item
title: GNfinder release v0.14.0
date: 2021-06-19
author: dimus
product: GNfinder
version: 0.14.0
categories: GNfinder release
comments: true
---

Find scientific names in plain texts, PDF files, MS documents etc.

[**GNfinder**][gnfinder] is a program for finding scientific names in texts.
GNfinder exists for several years now and is responsible for creation of name
indices for Biodiversity Heritage Library (BHL) and HathiTrust Digital Library.
The program is fast enough to process 5 million pages of BHL in just a couple
of hours.

The new [**GNfinder** v0.14.0][gnfinder v0.14.0] can find names not only
in plain UTF8-encoded texts, but also in a large variety of files including
PDF, MS Word, MS Excel, and images. In this blog post we describe how it
can be used.

[**GNfinder**][gnfinder] code follows [Semantic Versioning] practices.  So
users need to be aware that for versions 0.x.x backward incompatible changes
might happen.

## Summary

[**GNfinder**][gnfinder] is a command line application, that can also be used
as a RESTful service. In the near future it will also have a web-based user
interface and will run at ``https://finder.globalnames.org``

The program uses heuristic and Natural Language Processing (NLP) algorithms for
name finding.

## Performance

For a test we used 4MB PDF file that contains ~2000 unique names. These names
are mentioned in text ~13000 times.

Time for conversion to UTF8-encoded plain text: 2.5 sec

Time for name-finding: 0.4 sec

Time for name-verification of 2000 uniquely found names: 2.5 sec

## Installation

The program consists of one stand-alone file, so it is easy to install. The
binaries for MS WIndows, Mac OS or Linux can be downloaded from
[GitHub][gnfinder v0.14.0]. In addition [**GNfinder**][gnfinder] can be
installed using a Homebrew package manager with the following terminal commands:

```bash
brew tap gnames/gn
brew install gnfinder
```

For more detailed installation instructions see the [documentation][gnfinder]
on GitHub.

## Usages

[**GNfinder**][gnfinder] is a command line application. It requires an internet
connection for converting files to UTF8-encoded text and for name-verification.

To get help use:

```bash
gnfinder -h
```

To get names from a UTF8-encoded text file (with -U flag no internet connection
is required):

```bash
gnfinder -U file-with-names.txt
```

To get names from any other kind of file:

```bash
gnfinder file.pdf
```

To find names, to verify them and to output results in JSON format:

```bash
gnfinder file.pdf -v -f pretty
```

For more information read the [documentation][gnfinder] on GitHub.

## RESTful (API)

You can run [**GNfinder**][gnfinder] as a [RESTful API][gnfinder api]
service as well. For now API can work only with UTF-8 encoded texts, but other
file formats will be available via API as well after completion of a
web-based user interface.

[gnfinder]: https://github.com/gnames/gnfinder
[gnfinder v0.14.0]: https://github.com/gnames/gnfinder/releases/v0.14.0
[gnfinder api]: https://apidoc.globalnames.org/gnfinder
[Semantic Versioning]: https://semver.org
