---
layout: news_item
title: Why Go is a great language for biodiversity informatics
date: 2021-07-11
author: dimus
categories: review
comments: true
---

We, as a biodiversity informatics community use quite a few programming
languages to solve problems --- Python, Java, R, Ruby are probably the most
popular ones. After working for the last few years with a language Go I think
it would be very beneficial to add it to a toolset used for biodiversity.

When I started writing in Go, the language seemed to be  a bit clunky,
did not have much of a cool shiny concepts that other languages are, I felt
there were no "cute" syntax gold nuggets that are common in languages like
Ruby or Python. However, I think Go is uniqely amazing for solving many
biodiversity informatics problems.

I tried about 10 different languages for the last 12 years working on
Encyclopedia Of Life and Global Names projects, and for the last 5 years Go
is the language of choice for the vast majority of projects I make.

Lets look at the key benefits of the language.

## Feature 1: Amazing code readability

Biodiversity informatics is mostly run in academia. In academia projects
blossom and wither depending on availability of funds. Funds often appear and
dissapear, students and postdocs come and go, and quite often people have to
continue development of projects written by someone else.

An ability to understand code written by another person is crucial
for longevity of projects. So many important and interesting developments
become stale or die only because their code is to hard understand.

I found that code written in Go is one of the easiest to understand. The
simplicity of syntax was one of major design goals in Go, and most of the
common programming tasks can be solved only in one way. Go designers decided
on a brutally minimalistic approach, and picked every language construct with

is quite unique in its minimalism. The
language semantic constructs had been carefully selected not to overlap, as a
result the programming style of novice and experienced programmers does not
differ that much. It is great for supporting projects written by others, and
for learning from Go code itself how to solve common problems.

I do not know any other programming language that is so easy to read and
understand.

## Feature 2: Go is easy to learn

Minimalistic approach to the language design makes it possible to learn Go with
5-10 times less effort than other languages. Specification of the language is
tiny and just going through a [tour of Go] is enough to be productive
after a few hours.

## Feature 3: Go is easy to maintain

Developers of Go language released Go v1.0 in 2012 and plan to support backward
compatibility for many years to come. Starting with Go v1.11 there is also
support for versioning of community packages as dependencies. As a result
it is possible to write a program or library and use it without any changes
inspite new versiong of Go appearing regularly. If a library or a program
depends on a Open Source packages, a specific version of such packages is
set in a `go.mod` file.

New versions of Go appear regularly, and to use recently added features a
developer can provide Go version in `go.mod`.

Go team is very careful when they consider new features, and such features are
implemented only after much thought and discussions. As a result new features
do not create backward incompatibilities.

## Feature 4: Go is fast

Go is much faster than such languages like Python, Ruby, Perl or R. In addition
concurrency and parallel execution of the code is a major feature in the core
of the language. Writing concurrent code in Go orders of magnitude easier than
in C, and after some practice becomes as fast as writing a single-threaded
code.

Combination of language speed and parallel execution of the code on modern
computers allows to make Go programs up to 100 times faster than programs
written in interpreted languages.

## Feature 5: Speed of programming is great

Go is quite expressive, and, in my experience, the speed of developing in Go
is comparable with speed of development in Python or Ruby.

Also, running tests in Go is very fast, even big programs
can be tested without a long wait. It allows to run tests often, or run
them on each save.

## Feature 6: Very fast compilation

Go is a compiled language, and requires compilation of its code before
execution.

## Feature 7: Convenient executable files

When Go compiles programs into a self-sufficient executable file. As a rule
Go programs have no external dependencies and, as a result, very easy to
distribute and install. Downloading one file and running it is all what is
required. Go supports cross-compilation. It means that it can create
executable files for any supported OS on one computer. For example, a computer
running Linux can create executables for MS Windows, Mac OS, and Linux in one
go.

## Go is great for remote API and web-applications

Writing an extemely fast web-server in Go is a trivial task. Developing
web-applications is quite easy with provided template methods. Distributing
web-applications is also easy, because all the static files are usually
included into a single binary. Beside traditional REST approach to APIs
there is a very fast streaming gRPC approach.

## Feature 5: Rich ecosystem of Open Source libraries

Inspite of being a relatively young language (v1 exists for only 9 years) Go
has a very active community and large number of libraries for many development
needs. Specific libraries for biodiversity informatics are scarse so far, but
they start to appear. For example Global Names provides libraries for [finding],
[parsing] and [verifying] of scientific names.

## Feature 6: Go code can be used in many other languages via C-bindings

It is possible to compile Go into a C library, and use it via C-binding with
many other languages (C, R, Ruby, Python, Java for example).

It is also possible to incorporate C libraries into Go, however most of
functionality usually provided by C libraries is already implemented in
pure Go and introducing such depencencies most often is not required.

## Feature 7: Very good tools for developers

A lot of tools exist for Go that simplify development. Go developers pioneered
an idea of auto-formatting of written code. There are fantastic plugins for Go
development VS code, Vim, Emacs etc. These plugins often incorporate linting,
formatting, debugging, refactoring tools for Go. And most of these tools
can also be used as a stand-alone command line applications. Go has powerful
profiling and tracing tools as well.

## Conclusion

I hope this post gave you and idea why Go is good for biodiversity informatics,
and you can try to start solving problems that appear in your work using
Go language. I would suggest to pick a small well-defined task, that requires
fast execution, read [tour of Go] tutotiral, install Go and Go tools for your
favorite editor and start hacking the code!

[finding]: https://github.com/gnames/gnfinder
[parsing]: https://github.com/gnames/gnparser
[verifying]: https://github.com/gnames/gnverifier
[tour of Go]: https://tour.golang.org/welcome/1