---
layout: docs
title: GN Usage Bank
date: 2015-09-21 15:12:32
type: apps
permalink: /apps/gnub/
---
<div class="note application">
  <ul>
    <li>API App</li>
  </ul>
</div>

GNUB, the Global Names Usage Bank, will be the core of GNA.  GNUB will be the
means by which we index and organize our recorded knowledge that we have about
life on earth (well at least all of the recorded knowledge that is available
on-line in a digital format).

<!-- BREAK -->

A usage is a statement that includes a name.  The usage might be a statement in
a paper about the food of a brine shrimp, records of its occurrence, its
presence on a web page, a digitized specimen label from a museum, or even field
notes that refer to the organism.  All such usages of all species in all
documents make up humanity's knowledge of the biosphere.  GNUB is an
environment that will have the capacity to index all such usages that are
available on-line in a digital format.

GNUB connects names with their use.  Through the uses that occur in
nomenclators, we will know what the correct name is and how to present it.
Through the uses in taxonomies, we will know what the synonyms are.  Through
all of the statements about what the organism does, where it lives, what it
looks like and so on, we will be informed as to what the species is (the
species concept/s).   By indexing and grouping the index we will accelerate
access to information.

As GNUB grohttp://globalnames.org/GNUBws to an early beta form into a much
larger structure, it will complement and eventually subsume other parts of the
Global Names Architecture, such as the discovery and acquisition of names
currently being pursued by GNI.

The role of GNUB as an index will be dwarfed by rich diversity of uses to which
the information it indexes can be put.   The Global Names team will build some
of the functions that help to promote the Global Names Architecture, but by
providing APIs, the information will be made available to other players to
serve the needs of their clients.  As the group assembling GNUB has very strong
taxonomic influences, it is not surprising that lead figures include the
Zoological and Fungal nomenclators ZooBank and Index Fungorum.   As all
nomenclatural acts to date require conventional publication, GNUB must interact
with literature management environments such as the CiteBank environment being
developed by the Biodiversity Heritage Library.

Zoobank is a specialist service that draws on GNUB.

Model components are shown below:
